                           Beetle release 4
                           ----------------

                   by Reuben Thomas <rrt@sc3d.org>
                 http://rrt.sc3d.org/Software/Beetle


This package comprises the definition of the Beetle virtual machine, a
virtual machine specialised for the execution of Forth, an
implementation in ISO C 99 using POSIX APIs, and a simple Forth
compiler, mForth for Beetle v0.02. Detailed documentation is in the
doc directory; installation instructions follow.

The package is distributed under the GNU Public License version 3, or,
at your option, any later version.

THIS PROGRAM IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITH NO WARRANTY. USE IS AT THE USER'S
RISK.


Installation and compatibility
------------------------------

Beetle should work on any POSIX-1.2001-compatible system that uses
twos complement arithmetic.

Beetle has been tested on Linux with GNU C.

Previous releases were known to work on Acorn RISC OS, Digital UNIX
V3.2, UNIX System V Release 4.0, ULTRIX 4.3, NetBSD 1.2, MSDOS, and
Atari TOS.

Beetle has also been tested on Atari TOS with Prospero C, and works
after a workaround has been applied to the program to cope with a bug
in the compiler's unsigned division routines. I believe that it would
work fine with GNU C, but I would particularly appreciate a report
from anyone who finds that it does.

Reports on compatibility, whether positive or negative, are welcomed.


mForth
------

mForth is a minimal Forth compiler. It is ANS compliant, but omits
many features required by the ANSI standard. However, file reading and
writing are implemented, so it can be straightforwardly extended.


Hand-written assembler version
------------------------------

ARMbeetle.bas contains a hand-written assembler version of Beetle for
the ARM processor, written in the BBC BASIC assembler (for RISC OS).
It produces AOF format objects equivalent to those produced by run.c
and step.c, which can be linked in their place.


Bugs and comments
-----------------

Please send me bug reports and comments. I'm especially interested to
know of portability bugs.

The BA dissertation to which the documentation frequently refers is
available from the URL above, but all the relevant bits of it are
included as separate documents.
