                             C Beetle release 3
                             ------------------

                       by Reuben Thomas (rrt@sc3d.org)


This package comprises a C implementation of the virtual processor Beetle,
and mForth for Beetle v0.02. See the various DVI files for documentation.

The URL for the primary distribution is:

http://rrt.sc3d.org/Research


Copyright and Disclaimer
------------------------

The package is distributed under the GNU Public License version 2, or, at
your option, any later version. A copy is available from my web page (address
above).

THIS PROGRAM IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITH NO WARRANTY. USE IS AT THE USER'S RISK.


Systems tested
--------------

Beetle has been tested on Acorn RISC OS, Linux, Digital UNIX V3.2,
UNIX System V Release 4.0, ULTRIX 4.3, NetBSD 1.2 and MSDOS all with
GNU C.

Beetle has also been tested on Atari TOS with Prospero C, and works after a
workaround has been applied to the program to cope with a bug in the
compiler's unsigned division routines. I believe that it would work fine with
GNU C, but I would particularly appreciate a report from anyone who finds
that it does, and the binary they have compiled.

Reports on compatibility, whether positive or negative, are welcomed.


Hand-written assembler version
------------------------------

ARMbeetle.bas contains a hand-written assembler version of Beetle for the ARM
processor, written in the BBC BASIC assembler (for RISC OS). uiface,ff8 is a
RISC OS 3 (26-bit) executable built with this version of Beetle.


mForth
------

mForth is a minimal Forth compiler. It is ANS compliant, but omits many
features required by the ANSI standard. However, file reading and writing is
possible, so it can be extended.


Bugs and comments
-----------------

There are no known bugs, but there are bound to be some. Please send me bug
reports and comments; I may well fix any bugs, but I don't intend to do
further work on Beetle, as I'm working on a successor system. I'm especially
interested to know of fixes that let Beetle compile on platforms on which it
currently doesn't work.

You should ignore most of the references in the documentation to my
bachelor's dissertation; all the relevant bits of it are included as separate
documents.
